# PrizyPricer Tests Suite

This project was designed to test the functionality of the Prizy Pricer application page. I've used an architecture based in Java, TestNG and Selenium for Java to test different scenarios. 

## Project Features

### Unit Tests

There's a test class called BusinessUnitTests.java that contains unit tests scenarios with an explanation of how I would implement them. It's just hard code that basically gives an approach of how I would test the main functionality of the application.

### Selenium Tests:

I've designed the selenium tests in base to the Page design pattern. In terms of scalability the Page design pattern is always a requirement for all kind of web based tests. 

There's a Page class that contains common methods to all specific pages from the site, then the IndexPage which is contained in all pages and it contains common methods and selectors to all pages (search field, search button, home link). Then, there is a class per specific page in the project, with all it's selectors and specific methods. In the test design we can call different pages and interact between them more efficiently.

Stubs were implemented in the tests (ProductStub and PriceStub) to simulate the logic of the prices calculation and the storage of the products in the tests execution. 

EnvironmentData class is a kind of configuration file that deals with the WebDriver and Timeout initialization. Also, this file contains a set of collections with pre-defined values to generate them randomly (like the barCode random generator based in the UUID code ). This class is also in charge to manage an static collection of saved products by the tests and this collection is the key to execute the following tests with the output data that is generated by it's predecessor.

There are two test classes that contains a total of 7 (seven) tests scenarios:

* createPrizyPricerProducts
* createPrizyPricerProductWithoutBarCode
* createPrizyPricerProductWithoutDescription
* loadPricesForCreatedProducts
* loadPriceWithoutStoreField
* loadPriceWithoutPriceField
* verifyProductDetailsInList

#### Running the Tests

- First of all, we need to make sure that we have JDK 1.8 (Java 8) installed and configured with the JAVA_HOME system variable. If not, you will need to download JDK 1.8 and install it, then add the JAVA_HOME system variable pointing to the JDK folder that you've just installed.

- Apache Maven is required to build and run the project's tests. If you don't have Maven installed you will need to download the distribution for your operating system and then, configure the MAVEN_HOME system variable pointing to the Maven installation directory.

- Git is necessary to clone the project locally. If you don't have Git installed you will need to download the latest version of the program. Also, you could use Github for Windows application as a complement to this tool.

- Once that you have JDK 1.8 and Maven installed you will need to clone the PrizyPricer test project using Git.
* Go to the folder or workspace that will contain the project
* Open the Git Bash command (you can right-click in the same folder and open the bash or you can open the bash first and navigate to the desired folder).
* Execute the following command:
	
			git clone https://github.com/dav1denk0/prizyPricer.git
			
* If everything goes fine, the project will be cloned in your system. Now you have the PrizyPricer test suite!
	
- Once that the PrizyPricer test project was cloned you need to install dependencies through Apache Maven (TestNG, Selenium, etc.)
* Open a command window over the project root folder (/prizyPricer/ - make sure that the pom.xml file is in the folder)  and execute the following command:
		
			mvn clean install -U -DskipTests
			
This will install all the dependencies and it will skip the tests execution, if you want to install the dependencies and run the tests, you need to execute the following command:
		
			mvn clean install -U
			
- With all the dependencies installed, now we're able to run our tests, you need to open a command window over the project root folder (make sure that the pom.xml is in the current directory) and execute:

			mvn test
			
- In the project root folder there's a test-output folder with reports of the tests execution, you can view them by accessing to the index.html file using some web browser.